doc_type: insurance
policy_name: Insurance Co
provider: Bajaj Allianz
coverage_type: health
audience: senior_citizen
---

# Insurance Co – Simple Explanation

## What This Policy Is For
This policy is provided by **Bajaj Allianz** to help cover medical and hospital expenses.

## Hospitalization Coverage
- declarations, information/particulars and statements, which is hereby agreed to be the basis of this Contract and be
- iii. Having dedicated AYUSH therapy sections as required and/or has equipped operation theatre where
- surgical procedures are to be carried out;
- iv.Maintaining daily records of the patients and making them accessible to the Insurance Company’s
- authorized representative.
- Having dedicated AYUSH therapy sections as required and/or has equipped operation theatre where
- surgical procedures are to be carried out;
- Maintaining daily records of the patients and making them accessible to the Insurance Company’s
- authorized representative.
- UIN- BAJHLIP23020V012223
- Global Health Care/ Policy Wordings/Page 2
- Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd.
- Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113
- For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or
- Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.)
- GLOBAL HEALTH CARE
- Cashless Facility:-
- Cashless Facility means a facility extended by the Insurer to the Insured where the payments, of the costs of
- treatment undergone by the Insured in accordance with the Policy terms and conditions, are directly made to the
- Network Provider by the Insurer to the extent pre-authorization is approved.
- Condition Precedent:-
- Condition Precedent means a Policy term or condition upon which the Insurer's liability under the Policy is
- conditional upon.
- Congenital Anomaly:-
- Congenital Anomaly means a condition which is present since birth, and which is abnormal with reference to
- form, structure or position.
- a. Internal Congenital Anomaly- Congenital Anomaly which is not in the visible and accessible parts of the body
- b. External Congenital Anomaly- Congenital Anomaly which is in the visible and accessible parts of the body
- has a fully equipped operation theatre of its own where surgical procedures are carried out;
- maintains daily records of patients and will make these accessible to the Insurance Company’s authorized
- personnel.
- ii. Which would have otherwise required a Hospitalization of more than 24 hours.
- iv. has a fully equipped operation theatre of its own where surgical procedures are carried out;
- v. maintains daily records of patients and makes these accessible to the Insurance Company’s authorized
- personnel.
- 18. Hospitalization:-
- Hospitalization means admission in a Hospital for a minimum period of 24 consecutive In-patient Care hours
- except for specified procedures/ treatments, where such admission could be for a period of less than 24
- consecutive hours.
- 19. Illness:-
- Illness means a sickness or a disease or pathological condition leading to the impairment of normal physiological
- function and requires medical treatment.
- a. Acute condition - Acute condition is a disease, Illness or Injury that is likely to respond quickly to treatment
- which aims to return the person to his or her state of health immediately before suffering the
- disease/Illness/Injury which leads to full recovery.
- b. Chronic condition – A chronic condition is defined as a disease, Illness, or Injury that has one or more of the
- following characteristics:
- a. it needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations, check-ups, and /or tests
- b. it needs ongoing or long-term control for relief of symptoms
- 22. Intensive Care Unit:-
- Intensive Care Unit means an identified section, ward or wing of a Hospital which is under the constant
- 23. ICU Charges:-
- ICU (Intensive Care Unit) Charges means the amount charged by a Hospital towards ICU expenses which shall
- include the expenses for ICU bed, general medical support services provided to any ICU patient including
- monitoring devices, critical care nursing and intensivist charges.
- incurred during Hospitalization);
- b. expenses towards lawful medical termination of pregnancy during the Policy Period.
- 26. Medical Advice:-
- Medical Advice means any consultation or advice from a Medical Practitioner including the issuance of any
- prescription or follow up prescription.
- 27. Medical Expenses:-
- Medical Expenses means those expenses that an Insured has necessarily and actually incurred for medical
- treatment on account of Illness or Accident on the advice of a Medical Practitioner, as long as these are no more
- than would have been payable if the Insured had not been Insured and no more than other Hospitals or Medical
- Practitioners in the same locality would have charged for the same medical treatment.
- 28. Medical Practitioner/Doctor/ Physician:-
- Medical Practitioner means a person who holds a valid registration from the Medical Council of any State or
- 38. Pre-Hospitalization Medical Expenses:-
- Pre-Hospitalization Medical Expenses means medical expenses incurred during pre-defined number of days
- preceding the Hospitalization of the Insured, provided that:
- i. Such Medical Expenses are incurred for the same condition for which the Insured’s Hospitalization was
- required, and
- ii. The In-patient Hospitalization claim for such Hospitalization is admissible by the Insurance Company.
- 39. Post-Hospitalization Medical Expenses:-
- Post-Hospitalization Medical Expenses means medical expenses incurred during pre-defined number of days
- immediately after the Insured is discharged from the Hospital provided that:
- Such Medical Expenses are for the same condition for which the Insured’s Hospitalization was required, and
- The Inpatient Hospitalization claim for such Hospitalization is admissible by the Insurance Company.
- 40. Reasonable and Customary Charges:-
- Reasonable and Customary Charges means the charges for services or supplies, which are the standard charges
- for the specific provider and consistent with the prevailing charges in the geographical area for identical or similar
- services, taking into account the nature of the Illness / Injury involved.
- 41. Qualified Nurse:-
- Qualified nurse means a person who holds a valid registration from the Nursing Council of India or the Nursing
- Council of any state in India.
- 43. Room Rent:-
- Room Rent means the amount charged by a Hospital towards Room and Boarding expenses and shall include
- the associated medical expenses.
- 44. Surgery or Surgical Procedure:-
- Surgery or Surgical Procedure means manual and / or operative procedure (s) required for treatment of an Illness
- or Injury, correction of deformities and defects, diagnosis and cure of diseases, relief from suffering and
- In-patient cash benefit is payable when You receive Inpatient treatment free of charge for a medical condition that
- is covered by Us. Cover is limited to the amount and maximum number of nights specified in the Table of Benefits
- and is payable after You are discharged from Hospital.
- 20. Limit of Indemnity:-
- We have accepted an Inpatient Hospitalization claim for the Insured under In-patient Hospitalization treatment
- neck performed in a Hospital by an oral and maxillofacial surgeon for: oral pathology, temporomandibular joint
- disorders, facial bone fractures, congenital jaw deformities, salivary gland diseases and tumours.
- Unless You hold an International Dental Plan, We do not cover the following procedures even if they are
- performed by an oral and maxillofacial surgeon:

## Cardiac Coverage
- orthopedic implants, cardiac valve replacements, vascular stents.
- ix. Relevant laboratory diagnostic tests, X-ray and such similar expenses that are medically necessary prescribed
- by the treating Medical Practitioner.
- orthopedic implants, cardiac valve replacements, vascular stents.
- ix. Relevant laboratory diagnostic tests, X-ray, and other Radiology tests and such similar expenses that are
- medically necessary prescribed by the treating Medical Practitioner.
- g. Coronary heart disease
- h. Severe Sleep Apnea
- prosthetic devices implanted during surgical procedure like Pacemaker, orthopedic implants, cardiac valve
- replacements, vascular stents etc.
- 5) Treatment for any other system other than modern medicine (allopathy)
- g. Coronary heart disease
- h. Severe Sleep Apnea
- devices implanted during surgical procedure like Pacemaker, orthopedic implants, cardiac valve replacements,
- vascular stents etc.
- 5) Treatment for any other system other than modern medicine (allopathy)

## Chronic Disease Coverage
- Uncontrolled Type2 Diabetes
- 7) Change-of-gender treatments (Code- Excl07)
- Expenses related to any treatment, including surgical management, to change characteristics of the body to those
- of the opposite sex.
- 8) Cosmetic or plastic Surgery (Code- Excl08)
- Expenses for cosmetic or plastic surgery or any treatment to change appearance unless for reconstruction
- Uncontrolled Type2 Diabetes
- 7) Change-of-gender treatments (Code-Excl07)
- Expenses related to any treatment, including surgical management, to change characteristics of the body to those
- of the opposite sex.
- 8) Cosmetic or plastic Surgery (Code-Excl08)
- Expenses for cosmetic or plastic surgery or any treatment to change appearance unless for reconstruction
- 262 TIPS procedure for portal hypertension
- 63 Infusional Targeted therapy
- 263 Esophageal Growth stent
- 64 SRT-Stereotactic Arc Therapy
- 264 PAIR Procedure of Hydatid Cyst liver
- 65 SC administration of Growth Factors
- 265 Tru cut liver biopsy

## Out Patient Coverage
- Treatment normally taken on an out-patient basis is not included in the scope of this definition.
- 35. OPD treatment:-
- OPD treatment means the one in which the Insured visits a clinic / Hospital or associated facility like a
- consultation room for diagnosis and treatment based on the advice of a Medical Practitioner. The Insured is not
- procedure performed on the Insured cannot be carried out on out-patient basis.
- UIN- BAJHLIP23020V012223
- Global Health Care/ Policy Wordings/Page 12
- Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd.
- Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113
- For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or
- Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.)
- GLOBAL HEALTH CARE
- e. Out-patient Treatment for Mental Illness
- d. the treatment could not be carried out on an out-patient basis.
- e. Out-patient Treatment for Mental Illness
- d. the treatment could not be carried out on an out-patient basis
- quality of life. It includes Inpatient, day-care and out-patient treatment. We will pay for physical care, psychological
- care, Hospital or hospice accommodation, nursing care and prescription drugs.
- II. OUT-PATIENT BENEFITS FOR INTERNATIONAL COVER (Applicable to Imperial Plus Plan only)
- 1. Out-patient Treatment
- If You consult a consultant/Medical Practitioner on Outpatient basis for the Illness/ Injury contracted during the
- Policy Period, We will pay You Out Patient expenses up to the limits specified in the Policy Schedule for
- a. Medical Practitioner fees
- b. Specialist fees
- c. Diagnostic tests
- d. Prescription drugs
- claims under out-patient except those arising out of Accidental Injury, however the waiting period would not
- b. Out-patient Dental Treatment expenses will not be covered
- 2. Physiotherapy Benefit
- We will pay the expenses incurred towards Prescribed Physiotherapy taken on Out-patient basis for Illness/Injury
- contracted during the Policy Period, maximum up to the limit specified in the Policy Schedule, provided that,
- a. The treatment is referred by a Doctor or prescribed by a Specialist consultant for Muskulo- skeletal
- /Neurological diseases / Injuries or other Systemic diseases
- b. The treatment should be carried out by a registered physiotherapist in a Hospital or a clinic as defined under
- the Policy
- c. Physiotherapy is initially restricted to 12 sessions per condition, after which treatment must be reviewed by the
- Doctor who referred You. If You need further sessions, You must send Us a new progress report after every
- set of 12 sessions, indicating the medical necessity for more treatment.
- Out-patient benefits
- IMPERIAL PLAN
- IMPERIAL PLUS PLAN
- Maximum out-patient plan
- benefit for international
- treatments only
- Out-patient Treatment
- (Medical Practitioner fees
- Specialist fees
- Diagnostic tests
- Prescription drugs)
- Note: Excluding out-patient
- Dental Treatment
- Physiotherapy Benefit
- (Prescribed Physiotherapy)
- Alternate/Complementary
- Treatment Expenses
- (Chiropractic treatment,
- 17) Costs in respect of a family therapist or counsellor for out-patient mental illness treatment.
-  Out-patient treatment
-  Prescribed medical aids
-  Preventive treatment
-  Travel costs of Insured family members in the event of an evacuation/repatriation
-  Travel costs of Insured family members in the event of the repatriation of mortal remains
-  Travel costs of Insured members to be with a family member who is at peril of death or who has died
- e. Out-patient Treatment for Mental Illness.
- 17) Costs in respect of a family therapist or counsellor for out-patient mental illness treatment.
-  Out-patient treatment
-  Prescribed glasses and contact lenses including eye examination
-  Prescribed medical aids
- UIN- BAJHLIP23020V012223
- Global Health Care/ Policy Wordings/Page 28
- Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd.
- Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113
- For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or
- Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.)
- GLOBAL HEALTH CARE
-  Preventive treatment
- e. Out-patient Treatment for Mental Illness.
- 33) Emergency treatment outside area of cover
- Cover is not provided for curative or follow-up non-Emergency treatment, even if You are deemed unable to
- C. Applicable to Part B-II (OUT-PATIENT BENEFITS FOR INTERNATIONAL COVER)
- 1. Out-patient Treatment
- claims under out-patient except those arising out of Accidental Injury, however the waiting period would not be
- b. Out-patient Dental Treatment expenses will not be covered.
- 2. Alternate/Complementary Treatment
- Claiming for Your out-patient, dental and other expenses

## Modern Treatments
- 12. Modern Treatment Methods and Advancement in Technologies
- We will pay the Customary and Reasonable expenses for the Modern Treatment Methods as mentioned in
- Modern Treatment Methods and
- Advancement in Technologies
- 17. Modern Treatment Methods and Advancement in Technologies
- We will pay the Customary and Reasonable expenses for the Modern Treatment Methods as mentioned in
- Modern Treatment Methods
- and Advancement in
- Technologies
- 7) Congenital external diseases or defects or anomalies, growth hormone therapy, stem cell implantation or surgery
- except for Hematopoietic stem cells for bone marrow transplant for haematological conditions.
- 8) Intentional self-Injury (including but not limited to the use or misuse of any intoxicating drugs or alcohol)
- 9) Vaccination or inoculation unless forming a part of post bite treatment or if medically necessary and forming a
- part of treatment recommended by the treating Medical Practitioner.
- 10) All non-medical Items as per Annexure II.
- 11) Circumcision unless required for the treatment of Illness or Accidental bodily Injury.
- 12) Treatment for any medical conditions arising directly or indirectly from chemical contamination, radioactivity or
- any nuclear material, including the combustion of nuclear fuel.
- 13) Alternate/ Complementary treatment, with the exception of those treatments shown in the Table of Benefits.
- 14) Expenses incurred because of complications directly caused by an Illness, Injury or treatment for which cover is
- excluded or limited under Your plan.
- 15) Consultations performed and any drugs or treatments prescribed by You, Your spouse, parents or children.
- 16) Dental veneers and related procedures, unless medically necessary.
- but not limited to, 3D Printing. Expenses incurred during the acquisition of an organ relating to stem cell storage
- and banking.
- 28) The following benefits or any adverse consequences or complications relating to them, unless otherwise indicated
- in Your Table of Benefits:
-  Dental treatment, dental surgery, periodontics, orthodontics and dental prostheses. The only exception is
- 7) Congenital external diseases or defects or anomalies, growth hormone therapy, stem cell implantation or surgery
- except for Hematopoietic stem cells for bone marrow transplant for haematological conditions.
- 8) Intentional self-Injury (including but not limited to the use or misuse of any intoxicating drugs or alcohol)
- 9) Vaccination or inoculation unless forming a part of post bite treatment or if medically necessary and forming a
- part of treatment recommended by the treating Medical Practitioner.
- 10) All non-medical Items as per Annexure II
- 11) Circumcision unless required for the treatment of Illness or Accidental bodily Injury,
- 12) Treatment for any medical conditions arising directly or indirectly from chemical contamination, radioactivity or
- any nuclear material, including the combustion of nuclear fuel.
- 13) Alternate/Complementary treatment, with the exception of those treatments shown in the Table of Benefits.
- 14) Expenses incurred because of complications directly caused by an Illness, Injury or treatment for which cover is
- excluded or limited under Your plan.
- 15) Consultations performed and any drugs or treatments prescribed by You, Your spouse, parents or children.
- 16) Dental veneers and related procedures, unless medically necessary.
- but not limited to, 3D Printing. Expenses incurred during the acquisition of an organ relating to stem cell storage
- and banking.
- 30) The following benefits or any adverse consequences or complications relating to them, unless otherwise indicated
- in Your Table of Benefits:
-  Dental treatment, dental surgery, periodontics, orthodontics and dental prostheses. The only exception is
- Annexure III: Indicative list of Modern Treatment Methods and Advancement in Technologies
- Uterine Artery Embolization and HIFU
- Balloon Sinuplasty
- Immunotherapy- Monoclonal Antibody to be given as injection
- Intra vitreal injections
- Robotic surgeries
- Stereotactic radio surgeries
- Bronchical Thermoplasty
- Vaporisation of the prostrate (Green laser treatment or holmium laser treatment)
- IONM -(Intra Operative Neuro Monitoring)
- Stem cell therapy: Hematopoietic stem cells for bone marrow transplant for haematological conditions to
- be covered
- Annexure IV: ICD codes for Mental Illness*
- Description
- F00-F09 Organic, including symptomatic, mental disorders
- F20-F29 Schizophrenia, schizotypal and delusional disorders
- F30-F39 Mood [affective] disorders
- F40-F48 Neurotic, stress-related and somatoform disorders
- F50-F59 Behavioural syndromes associated with physiological disturbances and physical factors
- F60-F69 Disorders of adult personality and behaviour
- F80-F89 Disorders of psychological development
- F90-F98 Behavioural and emotional disorders with onset usually occurring in childhood and
- adolescence
- Unspecified mental disorder
- *As per ICD-10 classification of Mental and Behavioral Disorders F10-F19 consist of Mental and behavioral
- disorders due to psychoactive substance use which are not covered under "Mental Illness Treatment" and hence
- not listed in Annexure IV: ICD codes for Mental Illness.

## AYUSH Treatment
- 3. AYUSH Hospital:-
- An AYUSH Hospital is a healthcare facility wherein medical/surgical/para-surgical treatment procedures and
- interventions are carried out by AYUSH Medical Practitioner(s) comprising of any of the following:
- a. Central or State Government AYUSH Hospital; or
- b. Teaching Hospital attached to AYUSH College recognized by the Central Government/Central Council of
- Indian Medicine/Central Council for Homeopathy; or
- c. AYUSH Hospital, standalone or co-located with Inpatient healthcare facility of any recognized system of
- medicine, registered with the local authorities, wherever applicable, and is under the supervision of a qualified
- registered AYUSH Medical Practitioner and must comply with all the following criterion:
- i. Having at least 5 Inpatient beds;
- ii. Having qualified AYUSH Medical Practitioner in charge round the clock;
- Having qualified registered AYUSH Medical Practitioner(s) in charge;
- Medical Council of India or Council for Indian Medicine or for Homeopathy set up by the Government of India or a
- State Government and is thereby entitled to practice medicine within its jurisdiction; and is acting within its scope
- and jurisdiction of license.
- 29. Medically Necessary Treatment:-
- Medically necessary treatment means any treatment, tests, medication, or stay in Hospital or part of a stay in
- Hospital which:
- is required for the medical management of the Illness or Injury suffered by the Insured;
- must not exceed the level of care necessary to provide safe, adequate and appropriate medical care in
- scope, duration, or intensity;
- must have been prescribed by a Medical Practitioner,
- must conform to the professional standards widely accepted in international medical practice or by the
- medical community in India.
- medicine viz. chiropractic treatment, osteopathy, Chinese herbal medicine, homeopathy, acupuncture and
- podiatry as practised by approved therapists.
- 6. Dental prescription drugs outside India:-
- Dental prescription drugs outside India refers to those prescribed by a dentist for the treatment of dental
- inflammation or infection. The prescription drugs must be proven to be effective for the condition and recognized
- by the pharmaceutical regulator in a given country. They do not include mouthwashes, fluoride products,
- antiseptic gels and toothpastes.
- 7. Dental prostheses outside India:-
- chiropractic treatment, osteopathy, Chinese herbal medicine, homeopathy, acupuncture and podiatry as practised
- by approved therapists.
- osteopathy, homeopathy,
- Chinese herbal medicine,
- acupuncture and podiatry)
- Dental plan benefits (optional)
- IMPERIAL PLAN
- IMPERIAL PLUS PLAN
- Maximum dental plan
- benefit for international
- treatments only
- Dental treatment outside India

## Waiting Periods
- time-bound exclusions and for all waiting periods.
- a. During the first year of Global Health Care Policy with Us, 30 days waiting period would be applicable for all
- a. During the first year of Global Health Care Policy with Us, 90 days waiting period would be applicable for all
- claims under Physiotherapy Benefit except those arising out of Accidental Injury, however the waiting period
- During the first year of Global Health Care Policy with Us, 30 days waiting period would be applicable for all claims
- under Alternate/Complementary Treatment Expenses except those arising out of Accidental Injury, however the
- waiting period would not be applied during subsequent renewals.
- III. DENTAL PLAN BENEFITS (Optional)
- a. During the first year of Global Health Care Policy with Us, 30 days waiting period would be applicable for all
- claims except those arising out of Accidental Injury, however the waiting period would not be applied during
- IRDAI (Health Insurance) Regulations then waiting period for the same would be reduced to the extent of prior
- 2) Specified disease/procedure waiting period (Code - Excl02)
- a. Expenses related to the treatment of the listed Conditions, surgeries/treatments shall be excluded until the
- expiry of 24 months of continuous coverage after the date of inception of the first Global Health Care Policy
- c. If any of the specified disease/procedure falls under the waiting period specified for Pre-Existing diseases,
- then the longer of the two waiting periods shall apply.
- d. The waiting period for listed conditions shall apply even if contracted after the Policy or declared and accepted
- stipulated by IRDAI, then waiting period for the same would be reduced to the extent of prior coverage.
- List of specific diseases/procedures is as below
- UIN- BAJHLIP23020V012223
- Global Health Care/ Policy Wordings/Page 21
- Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd.
- Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113
- For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or
- Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.)
- GLOBAL HEALTH CARE
- 1. Any type gastrointestinal ulcers
- 2. Cataracts,
- 3. Any type of fistula
- 4. Macular Degeneration
- 5. Benign prostatic hypertrophy
- 6. Hernia of all types
- 7. All types of sinuses
- 8. Fissure in ano
- 9. Haemorrhoids, piles
- 10. Hydrocele
- 11. Dysfunctional uterine bleeding
- 12. Fibromyoma
- 13. Endometriosis
- 14. Hysterectomy
- 15. Uterine Prolapse
- 16. Stones in the urinary and biliary systems
- 17. Surgery on ears/tonsils/
- adenoids/ paranasal sinuses
- 18. Surgery on all internal or external tumours/ cysts/
- nodules/polyps of any kind including breast lumps
- with exception of Malignant tumor or growth
- 19. Diseases of gall bladder including cholecystitis
- 20. Pancreatitis
- 21. All forms of Cirrhosis
- 22. Gout and rheumatism
- 23. Tonsilitis
- 24. Surgery for varicose veins and
- varicose ulcers
- 3) 30-day waiting period (Code - Excl03)
- a. Expenses related to the treatment of any Illness within 30 days from the first Policy commencement date shall
- c. The within referred waiting period is made applicable to the enhanced Sum Insured in the event of granting
- IRDAI (Health Insurance) Regulations then waiting period for the same would be reduced to the extent of prior
- 2) Specified disease/procedure waiting period (Code-Excl02)
- a. Expenses related to the treatment of the listed Conditions, surgeries/treatments shall be excluded until the
- expiry of 24 months of continuous coverage after the date of inception of the first Global Health Care Policy
- c. If any of the specified disease/procedure falls under the waiting period specified for Pre-Existing diseases,
- then the longer of the two waiting periods shall apply.
- d. The waiting period for listed conditions shall apply even if contracted after the Policy or declared and accepted
- stipulated by IRDAI, then waiting period for the same would be reduced to the extent of prior coverage.
- List of specific diseases/procedures is as below
- 1. Any type gastrointestinal ulcers
- 2. Cataracts,
- 3. Any type of fistula
- 4. Macular Degeneration
- 5. Benign prostatic hypertrophy
- 6. Hernia of all types
- 7. All types of sinuses
- 8. Fissure in ano
- 9. Haemorrhoids, piles
- 10. Hydrocele
- 11. Dysfunctional uterine bleeding
- 12. Fibromyoma
- 13. Endometriosis
- 14. Hysterectomy
- UIN- BAJHLIP23020V012223
- Global Health Care/ Policy Wordings/Page 25
- Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd.
- Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113
- For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or
- Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.)
- GLOBAL HEALTH CARE
- 15. Uterine Prolapse
- 16. Stones in the urinary and biliary systems
- 17. Surgery on ears/tonsils/
- adenoids/ paranasal sinuses
- 18. Surgery on all internal or external tumours/ cysts/
- nodules/polyps of any kind including breast lumps
- with exception of Malignant tumor or growth
- 19. Diseases of gall bladder including cholecystitis
- 20. Pancreatitis
- 21. All forms of Cirrhosis
- 22. Gout and rheumatism
- 23. Tonsilitis
- 24. Surgery for varicose veins and

## Pre-Existing Disease
- periods and coverage of pre-existing diseases. Coverage is not available for the period for which no premium is
- 17. Hospital:-
- supervision of a dedicated Medical Practitioner(s), and which is specially equipped for the continuous monitoring
- and treatment of patients who are in a critical condition, or require life support facilities and where the level of care
- and supervision is considerably more sophisticated and intensive than in the ordinary and other wards.
- pre-existing conditions and time bound exclusions, with the same insurer.
- 31. Network Provider:-
- Network Provider means Hospitals or health care providers enlisted by an insurer, TPA or jointly by an Insurer
- and TPA to provide medical services to an Insured by a Cashless Facility.
- under family cover) to transfer the credit gained for pre-existing conditions and time-bound exclusions from
- one insurer to another.
- UIN- BAJHLIP23020V012223
- Global Health Care/ Policy Wordings/Page 5
- Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd.
- Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113
- For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or
- Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.)
- GLOBAL HEALTH CARE
- 37. Pre-Existing Disease:-
- Pre-Existing Disease means any condition, ailment or Injury or disease
- a. That is/are diagnosed by a physician within 48 months prior to the effective date of the Policy issued by the
- b. For which medical advice or treatment was recommended by, or received from, a physician within 48 months
- of grace period for treating the renewal continuous for the purpose of gaining credit for pre-existing diseases,
- 1) Pre-Existing Diseases (Code -Excl01)
- a. Expenses related to the treatment of a Pre-Existing Disease (PED) and its direct complications shall be
- excluded until the expiry of 36 months of continuous coverage after the date of inception of the first Global
- Health Care Policy with Us.
- d. Coverage under the Policy after the expiry of 36 months for any Pre-Existing Disease is subject to the same
- being declared at the time of application and accepted by Insurer.
- rebellion, revolution, insurrection, military or usurped power or confiscation or nationalization or requisition of or
- damage by or under the order of any government or public local authority.
- Any Medical expenses incurred due to Act of Terrorism will be covered under the Policy.
- 4) The cost of spectacles, contact lenses, hearing aids, crutches, dentures, artificial teeth and all other external
- appliances and/or devices whether for diagnosis or treatment except for Cost of Artificial Limbs, cost of
- 1) Pre-Existing Diseases (Code-Excl01)
- a. Expenses related to the treatment of a Pre-Existing Disease (PED) and its direct complications shall be
- excluded until the expiry of 36 months of continuous coverage after the date of inception of the first Global
- Health Care Policy with Insurer.
- d. Coverage under the Policy after the expiry of 36 months for any pre-existing disease is subject to the same
- being declared at the time of application and accepted by Insurer.
- rebellion, revolution, insurrection, military or usurped power or confiscation or nationalization or requisition of or
- damage by or under the order of any government or public local authority.
- Any Medical expenses incurred due to Act of Terrorism will be covered under the Policy.
- 4) The cost of spectacles, contact lenses, hearing aids, crutches, dentures, artificial teeth and all other external
- appliances and/or devices whether for diagnosis or treatment except for Cost of Artificial Limbs, cost of prosthetic
- shall be evidenced by a written endorsement signed and stamped.
- Where an Insured is added to this Policy, either by way of Endorsement or at the time of renewal, the pre-existing
- 1 Stapedotomy
- 204 Infected Keloid Excision
- 2 Myringoplasty(Type I Tympanoplasty)
- 205 Incision of a pilonidal sinus / abscess
- 3 Revision stapedectomy
- 206 Axillary lymphadenectomy
- 4 Labyrinthectomy for severe Vertigo
- 207 Wound debridement and Cover
- 5 Stapedectomy under GA
- 208 Abscess-Decompression
- 9 Stapedectomy under LA
- 212 Incision and drainage of Abscess
- 10 Revision of the fenestration of the inner ear.
- 213 Suturing of lacerations
- 11 Tympanoplasty (Type IV)
- 214 Scalp Suturing
- 12 Endolymphatic Sac Surgery for Meniere's
- 215 Infected lipoma excision
- 13 Turbinectomy
- 216 Maximal anal dilatation
- 14 Removal of Tympanic Drain under LA
- 15 Endoscopic Stapedectomy
- A)Injection Sclerotherapy
- 16 Fenestration of the inner ear
- B)Piles banding
- 17 Incision and drainage of perichondritis
- 218 Liver Abscess- catheter drainage
- 18 Septoplasty
- 219 Fissure in Ano- fissurectomy
- 19 Vestibular Nerve section
- 220 Fibroadenoma breast excision
- 20 Thyroplasty Type I
- 221 OesophagealvaricesSclerotherapy
- UIN- BAJHLIP23020V012223
- Global Health Care/ Policy Wordings/Page 44
- Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd.
- Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113
- For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or
- Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.)
- GLOBAL HEALTH CARE
- 21 Pseudocyst of the Pinna - Excision
- 222 ERCP - pancreatic duct stone removal
- 22 Incision and drainage - Haematoma Auricle
- 223 Perianal abscess I&D
- 23 Tympanoplasty (Type II)
- 224 Perianal hematoma Evacuation
- 24 Keratosis removal under GA
- 225 Fissure in anosphincterotomy
- 25 Reduction of fracture of Nasal Bone
- 226 UGI scopy and Polypectomyoesophagus
- 26 Excision and destruction of lingual tonsils
- 227 Breast abscess I& D
- 27 Conchoplasty

## Exclusions
- subject always to the Policy Schedule and the following terms, conditions, exclusions, and limitations of the Policy,
- exclusions contained or otherwise expressed in this Policy.
- PART A- COVERAGE- Domestic (Within India Only, for Imperial and Imperial Plus Plans)
- Subject otherwise to the terms, conditions and exclusions of the Policy.
- Exclusions: Mental Illness Treatment does not cover:
- a. Any expenses for Mental Illness Treatment related to Alcoholism, drug or substance abuse or any addictive
- condition and consequences thereof.
- b. Any expenses for diagnostic tests, investigations / treatment taken without the psychiatrist advising the same
- and which is not duly supported by his prescriptions
- c. Alternate treatment other than Allopathic treatment are not covered.
- Annexure III subject to the Sum Insured, terms, conditions and definitions, exclusions contained or otherwise
- expressed in this Policy.
- UIN- BAJHLIP23020V012223
- Global Health Care/ Policy Wordings/Page 13
- Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd.
- Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113
- For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or
- Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.)
- GLOBAL HEALTH CARE
- TABLE OF BENEFITS FOR DOMESTIC COVER
- IMPERIAL PLAN
- IMPERIAL PLUS PLAN
- Exclusions (Applicable to Medical Evacuation):
- a. costs for hotel suites, four or five-star hotel accommodation or hotel accommodation for an accompanying
- b. travel costs for accompanying person
- c. travel costs of Insured family members in the event of an evacuation
- Where adequately screened blood is not available locally, We will, where appropriate, try to locate and transport
- screened blood and sterile transfusion equipment, if this is advised by the treating Doctor and Our own medical
- experts. We and Our agents accept no liability if We are unsuccessful or if contaminated blood or equipment is
- used by the treating authority.
- Exclusions: Mental Illness Treatment does not cover:
- a. Any expenses for Mental Illness Treatment related to Alcoholism, drug or substance abuse or any addictive
- condition and consequences thereof. .
- UIN- BAJHLIP23020V012223
- Global Health Care/ Policy Wordings/Page 16
- Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd.
- Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113
- For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or
- Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.)
- GLOBAL HEALTH CARE
- b. Any expenses for diagnostic tests, investigations / treatment taken without the psychiatrist advising the same
- and which is not duly supported by his prescriptions
- c. Alternate treatment other than Allopathic treatment are not covered.
- Exclusion:
- Cover is not provided for curative or follow-up non-Emergency treatment, even if You are deemed unable to travel
- Exclusions:
- a. travel costs for accompanying person
- b. travel costs of Insured family members in the event of repatriation
- c. travel costs of Insured members to be with a family member who is at peril of death or who has died
- Exclusions:
- Expense incurred for any person accompanying the remains is not covered.
- Annexure III subject to the Sum Insured, terms, conditions and definitions, exclusions contained or otherwise
- expressed in this Policy.
- UIN- BAJHLIP23020V012223
- Global Health Care/ Policy Wordings/Page 18
- Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd.
- Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113
- For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or
- Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.)
- GLOBAL HEALTH CARE
- Exclusions:
- Exclusion:
- Exclusions:
- claim, subject to terms, conditions and definitions, exclusions, up to the limit specified in the Policy Schedule.
- 1. Dental treatment outside India
- We will pay Customary and Reasonable expenses up to the limits specifies in the Policy Schedule incurred for
- Dental Treatment which includes annual check-up, simple fillings related to cavities or decay, root canal
- treatment and dental prescription drugs.
- 2. Dental surgery outside India
- We will pay Customary and Reasonable expenses up to the limits specified in the Policy Schedule incurred for
- Dental Surgery which includes the surgical extraction of teeth, as well as other tooth-related surgical procedures
- such as apicoectomy, Surgical removal of cysts, Orthognathic surgeries for the correction of malocclusion and
- UIN- BAJHLIP23020V012223
- Global Health Care/ Policy Wordings/Page 19
- Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd.
- Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113
- For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or
- Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.)
- GLOBAL HEALTH CARE
- dental prescription drugs. All investigative procedures that establish the need for dental surgery such as
- laboratory tests, X-rays, CT scans and MRI(s) are included under this benefit.
- Exclusions:
-  Dental surgery does not cover surgical treatment that relates to dental implants.
-  Dental Prostheses, dental implants, orthodontics
- 3. Periodontics outside India
- We will pay Customary and Reasonable expenses up to the limits specified in the Policy Schedule incurred for
- treatment related to gum disease.
- Exclusions applicable to Dental Plan Benefits:
- SECTION D) EXCLUSIONS- STANDARD EXCLUSIONS APPLICABLE TO PART A- DOMESTIC COVER
- UNDER SECTION C) BENEFITS COVERED UNDER THE POLICY
- b. In case of enhancement of Sum Insured the exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent of Sum Insured increase.
- with Us. This exclusion shall not be applicable for claims arising due to an Accident.
- b. In case of enhancement of Sum Insured the exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent of Sum Insured increase.
- without a specific exclusion.
- b. This exclusion shall not, however apply if the Insured has Continuous Coverage for more than twelve months.
- SECTION D) EXCLUSIONS– SPECIFIC EXCLUSIONS APPLICABLE TO PART A- DOMESTIC COVER UNDER
- SECTION C) BENEFITS COVERED UNDER THE POLICY
- We do not cover the following expenses unless indicated otherwise in the Table of Benefits or in any written Policy
- endorsement
- 1) Any Dental Treatment that comprises of cosmetic surgery, dentures, dental prosthesis, dental implants,


## In Simple Words
This insurance helps pay hospital bills when you fall sick.  
Some treatments have waiting periods and exclusions depending on the illness.
